-----------------
Projected Phonons
-----------------

.. image:: wideband.png
   :alt: Phonon dispersion with broadened bands.

This shows a phonon dispersion with bands broadened to indicate
scattering (the widest bands scatter the most). Via the command-line:

.. code-block::

   tp plot wideband ../data/zno/band.yaml ../data/zno/kappa-m404021.hdf5 -c black -c red -s dark_background -p POSCAR

and in python:

.. literalinclude:: plot-wideband.py
   :language: python
   :linenos:
   :emphasize-lines: 16,19,23,24

This also demonstrates the custom colourmaps which can be generated by
supplying a single hex, rgb (array) or named colour as the colour
input, or in this case two (the default background is normally white,
but to match the ``dark_background`` style sheet, black has been used
here). In this case, ``tp.plot.colour.linear`` has been used. It also
shows the large style, more suitable to presentations or posters than
the default one which is more suited to papers. Instead of the actual
quantities you want to load, ``wideband`` can select all necessary for
this plot.

.. image:: prophon.png
   :alt: Phonon dispersion with phonon lifetime projected.

This shows a phonon dispersion with phonon lifetime projected on the
colour axis. It is a more quantitative version of the above wideband
plot. It can be plotted in python with:

.. literalinclude:: plot-projected-phonons.py
   :language: python
   :linenos:
   :emphasize-lines: 25-27

Another similar function is ``tp.plot.phonons.add_alt_dispersion``,
which plots other phonon properties onto the y-axis along the high-
symmetry path provided by Phonopy. This will work with Phono3py
data, but also Gruneisen data from Phonopy
(``tp.data.load.phonopy_gruneisen``). Some useful tags for making the
Gruneisen data clearer include ``scatter=True`` (to clean up the bits
around &Gamma;), ``bandmax=3`` (only acoustic phonons) and manually
setting the y-limit (some outliers are automatically hidden, but
especially if only the acoustic modes are shown, it can be useful to
cut some of the data off the top).
